# Multiscale Analysis of the Hubble Tension in an Evaluation of the ΛCDM Model

### Layperson's summary:
There is significant observational evidence supporting universal expansion, but the expansion rate and whether that rate is the same at all spatial points is less clear. The model that best explains cosmological observations is the ΛCDM model, which assumes that the universe expands uniformly. However, it is not supported by physical evidence and has failed to predict certain cosmological anomalies, one of which is the Hubble Tension, where the calculated expansion rate of the universe differs depending on the type of distance-calculating object used. My study attempts to explain the Hubble Tension by correlating data from multiple types of distance-calculating objects with two factors: the predicted distance from Earth and the region of the sky the data came from. I fit a ΛCDM model to data and correlated discrepancies between observed and ΛCDM-predicted values to the above factors. My study supports the underlying skepticism by demonstrating that the expansion rate differs across varying distances and sky regions. This brings into question the validity of the uniform expansion assumed by the ΛCDM model and suggests the existence of undiscovered physical particles or extragalactic structures. However, additional observations with lower error must be made to develop more concrete predictions about universal expansion.

[Check out my paper here!](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Yn5wlq8pm6DrB76pPooL8Fijx3OUxshZR4s4_rPCKdM/edit?usp=sharing)
